THE OF THE REGULAR
VIEWERS OF THE PILL FORM
OF UNDERSECRETARY'S 2003
MICHAEL DARLING HERE DAVID AND
STAR FLAT HERE, ROBERT HIATT
HERE, KEVIN COX HERE STAFF WE
HAVE MIKE MILLER HERE FAMISH
HERE MYSELF.
DEBBIE WILLIAMS OF COURSE
COMPLETE AND WE DO HAVE A FORM
IF YOU FIRST TIME AND THE
AGENDA IS COMPOSED OF MINUTES
ON YOUR 17 TO TWENTY THREE
MEANING ANY COMMENTS ON THOSE
MEETINGS AND THE EMOTIONAL.
THE SECOND WAS APPARENT I USE
CRUDE THE FIRST ITEM ON THE
AGENDA FOR NEW BUSINESS IS
BEEBER TWENTY THREE ZERO ZERO
FIVE DURIANS FOR 311 E EVERY
STREET IN A ROW MICHIGAN AND SO
THE PROCESS WILL BE WILL HAVE
THE APPLICANT COME UP AND
PRESENT THEIR APPEAL.
YOU KNOW SOMEWHERE IN THAT
FOUR, FIVE OR SO MINUTES AND
THEN FIRST OF ALL THE STAFF
REPORT AND THEN WE'LL HAVE THE
COME UP AND THEN PRESENT THEIR
APPEAL AND THEN THE BOARD WILL
HAVE QUESTIONS FOR THE
APPLICANT AND THEN WE'LL HAVE A
MOTION BY THE BOARD AND THEN A
VOTE ON IT.
SO SO TO SPEAK INTO THE MIKE.
SO CAN WE HAVE THE SUPPORT FOR
THIS VARIANCE?
SO THE BUILDING AT 311 IS
LIBERTY.
IT'S FIVE CONSTRUCTION THE
FIRST FLOOR IS FORMERLY
MERCANTILE.
THAT'S PROPOSED TO BE A B
OCCUPANCY.
THE TWENTY FIFTEEN MICHIGAN
BUILDING CODE AND AS INDICATED
IN SIGNED SEALED PLANS
SUBMITTED WITH THE PERMIT
APPLICATION PLDT TWENTY THREE
DASH ZERO ONE NINE EIGHT THE
PLAN ALSO INDICATES A SUITE
ABOVE OR TO BE B OCCUPANCIES
THAT THIS PROPERTY WAS GIVEN
RELIEF FROM ACCESSIBILITY
REQUIREMENTS FIVE ONE TWO POINT
TWO AND FIVE ONE TWO POINT FOUR
THE BARRIER BARRIER FREE DESIGN
REQUIREMENTS IN WHICH
ESSENTIALLY STATED THE RECESSED
AREAS ON THE FIRST FLOOR AND
INTERIOR ACCESS TO THE SECOND
FLOOR DOES NOT NEED TO BE
ACCESSIBLE.
IN FEBRUARY 18TH NINETEEN
EIGHTY SEVEN THE BARRIER FREE
DESIGN BOARD REQUIRED PLATFORM
LIFT TO BE INSTALLED TO COMPLY
WITH THEIR ORDER TO DATE THE
PLATFORM LIFT HAS NOT BEEN
INSTALLED.
THE BUILDING PERMIT APPLICATION
WAS SUBMITTED FOR A RAMP ON THE
EAST SIDE OF THE BUILDING.
THE BUILDINGS APPROXIMATELY
SEVEN FEET TWO INCHES FROM THE
PROPERTY WHICH IS A REDUCED TO
FIVE FOOT ONE INCH FOR ABOUT
FIFTEEN FEET.
THE PETITIONER IS CURRENTLY
REQUESTING RELIEF FROM SECTION
TEN TWENTY SEVEN POINT FIVE
OF THE TWENTY FIFTEEN MICHIGAN
BUILDING CODE STAFF RECOMMENDS
THIS APPLICATION BE DENIED AS
IT DOESN'T MEET THE STANDARDS
FOR APPROVAL.
THE CODE HAS NOT BEEN
MISINTERPRET PROVISIONS OF THE
CODE DO APPLY AND NOT
MAINTAINING SEPARATION MINIMUMS
IS NOT EQUIVALENT OR BETTER
THAN THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE
2015 MICHIGAN BUILDING CODE PER
SECTION TEN TWENTY SEVEN POINT
FIVE OF THE MICHIGAN BUILDING
CODE STAFF RECOMMENDS THE
APPEAL BE DENIED AND THE ORDER
FROM THE BARRIER FREE DESIGN
BOARD IN NINETEEN EIGHTY SEVEN
BE COMPLIED WITH.
THE APPLICANT SHOULD RESUBMIT A
PLAN THAT PROVIDES ACCESS AND
MEETS THE MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS
OF CODE.
SO CAN WE HAVE THE APPLICANT
COME UP AND PRESENT THEIR
REQUEST PLEASE PLEASE STATE
YOUR NAME FOR THE RECORD AND
SIGN ON THAT
CAME.
MY NAME IS CARL SHUTER.
I AM THE ARCHITECT OF RECORD ON
THE PROJECT OF COURSE I THANK
YOU ALL FOR BEING HERE TODAY.
I KNOW YOU'RE BUSY SCHEDULES
AND MORE IMPORTANTLY I THINK
THOSE OF YOU ON THE BOARD YOU
DO AN IMPORTANT SERVICE TO THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
I DON'T BELIEVE IN THE FORTY
SOME YEARS I'VE BEEN AN
ARCHITECT.
I'VE COME IN FROM THIS BOARD
MORE THAN FIVE TIMES BECAUSE
SOMEONE ENTERING THIS ROOM
COMING IN FROM THIS OR IS
ASKING FOR A VARIANCE ON A LAW
A CODE SECTION AND IT SHOULD BE
DONE WHEN THERE'S ABSOLUTELY NO
OTHER WAY OF COMPLIANCE.
SO THE BURDEN OF PROOF FALLS
ENTIRELY UPON THE OWNER OF THIS
PROPERTY AND IN THAT PROOF WE
MUST DEMONSTRATE A PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTY AND HARDSHIP.
IT'S NOT SELF IMPOSED AND WE
ALSO NEED TO SHOW THAT WE'RE
MEETING THE INTENT OF THE
CODE SECTION IN OUR SOLUTION.
SUCH IS THE LIFE SAFETY
ELEMENTS OF THAT CODE ARE
PROTECTED AND THE PUBLIC IS
PROTECTED.
I TAKE THIS VERY SERIOUSLY.
THREE MISS LIBERTY WAS
PURCHASED BY THE INVESTIGATION
IN THE 1970S AND IN NINETEEN
EIGHTY SEVEN HAS TAYLOR
BUSINESS GREW TO A POINT THAT
HE ADDED ON TO THE PROPERTY IN
THAT TIME THE ARCHITECTS DESIGN
ARCHITECT INVOLVED THE HOUSE
AND BLACK AND ASSOCIATES
APPLIED FOR AN EXEMPTION FROM
MICHIGAN VERY FREE CODE BECAUSE
THEY FOUND THAT THE PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTIES AND HARDSHIP
INDICATED WAS TECHNICALLY
INFEASIBLE TO GIVE EXTERIOR
INGRESS AND EGRESS INTO THE
BUILDING AND THEY WENT IN FRONT
OF THE MACHINE BUREAU
CONSTRUCTION CODES BARRIER FREE
DIVISION RECEIVED AN EXEMPTION
THE WORK PROCEEDED.
THEY RECEIVED A PERMIT.
THE WORK WAS APPROVED IN
NINETEEN NINETY SEVEN.
ANOTHER BUILDING PERMIT WAS
PULLED ON THIS PROPERTY WHERE
AGAIN THEY RENOVATED THE FIRST
FLOOR AND OPENED THE BASEMENT
AREA UP TO A MERCANTILE USE AND
AT THAT POINT IN TIME NO
BARRIER FREE OBLIGATIONS WERE
APPLIED FOR OR GRANTED ON THIS
PROPERTY AND THAT RENOVATION
OCCURRED AND WAS APPROVED BASED
ON THE NINETEEN EIGHTY SEVEN
EXEMPTION.
WE ARE NOT LOOKING FOR A
BARRIER EXEMPTION ON THIS
PROPERTY.
WE WANT TO COMPLY WITH THE VERY
FREE CODES TO PROVIDE INGRESS
AND EGRESS TO THE PROPERTY AS
WELL AS BATHROOMS, PROPER SIZE
DOORS, CORRIDORS, ET CETERA
INSIDE THE BUILDING.
THE FIRST ITEM I HANDED OUT FOR
REFERENCE IS IT TOOK ME SEVERAL
MONTHS TO GET THIS OUT OF THE
BUREAU CONSTRUCTION CODES IN
MICHIGAN.
BUT BECAUSE THIS IS CHANGE
OF VIEWS AND A LEVEL TWO
RENOVATION UNDER THE 2015
REHABILITATION CODE , THE
EXEMPTION THAT WAS GRANTED IN
NINETEEN EIGHTY SEVEN IS NULL
AND VOID.
SO ANY REFERENCE TO THE AGE
OF AN EXEMPTION IS MORE OF A
HISTORICAL FACT AND THE FACT
THAT ON TWO OCCASIONS PROPERTY
WAS LOOKED UPON AS HAVING A
PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY AND
HARDSHIP IT WAS TECHNICALLY
INFEASIBLE TO PROVIDE ACCESS TO
THE FACILITY DURING THOSE TWO
EVENTS SOMETIME BETWEEN THE
1970S AND 1997 THE BEST MEDIAN
FAMILY ACQUIRED THE PROPERTY AT
315 EAST LIBERTY AND SO THEY
OWN BOTH THESE PROPERTIES WHICH
WILL BE PART OF THIS PETITION
IN THE CONTEXT OF A THREE
ELEVEN AND THREE FIFTEEN ARE
ALSO PART OF THE EAST LIBERTY
HISTORIC DISTRICT AND AS WE ALL
UNDERSTAND, THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION TAKES THEIR
JOB AND RESPONSIBILITY ON VERY
SERIOUSLY AND IN DOING SO IT'S
VERY SELDOM IF EVER THEY GRANT
AN EXEMPTION TO DO SOMETHING TO
THE FACADE OF A BUILDING IN A
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
THEY HAVE VERY LIMITED ACTIONS
TO TAKE ON SIDE YARDS AND
MOSTLY ANY RENOVATIONS OR
ADDITIONS THAT OCCUR OCCUR ON
THE BACKS OF THE BUILDINGS AS
PART OF THE HEBES, THE HISTORIC
AMERICAN BUILDING SURVEY
REQUIREMENTS THEY LOOK AT A
HISTORIC DISTRICT NOT ONLY IS
THE FACADES IN THE DISTRICT BUT
ALSO THE SPACES BETWEEN THE
BUILDINGS BECAUSE THE CONTEXT
OF THE HISTORIC DISTRICT IS
MADE UP OF THE BUILDINGS AND
THE SPACE BETWEEN BECAUSE
DEMONSTRATES A CHARACTER AND A
FABRIC TO THE TIME AND PLACE
THAT THE HISTORIC ONE DISTRICT
WANTS TO BE PRESERVED TO
PRESERVED TOO.
AND THAT'S VERY IMPORTANT THAT
THE SPACE BETWEEN THE BUILDINGS
IS AS IMPORTANT AS THE
BUILDINGS THEMSELVES IN A
HISTORIC DISTRICT I RECEIVE
THIS COMMISSION IN EARLY TWENTY
TWENTY THREE AND IT CAME FROM
ANOTHER ARCHITECTURAL FIRM THAT
NO LONGER COULD WORK ON IT AND
AT THAT TIME THEY'D SET A RAMP
UP IN THEIR DESIGN AND THE REAR
OF THE BUILDING AND YOU SEE
THAT IN THE DRAWINGS DOCUMENTS
THAT I GAVE YOU WE APPLIED FOR
A BUILDING PERMIT IN APRIL
OF TWENTY FIFTEEN I MEAN
OF TWENTY TWENTY THREE AND IN
THAT APPLICATION AND THE DESIGN
WE WERE SEEKING TO PUT IN A
BARRIER FREE RAMP ALLOW THAT
ACCESS AND THAT RAMP BECAUSE
THE THE NEW TENANT THE SPACE IS
AN A3 RESTAURANT UNDER THE B
BUSINESS USE AND THERE'S DAY TO
DAY NEEDS FOR GORDON'S FOODS
AND THINGS LIKE THAT TO RUN UP
THE RAMP TO BRING SUPPLIES INTO
THE BUILDING AND ABOUT.
SO SERVING TWO PURPOSES IT'S
OUR BEER FREE ACCESS AND IT'S
ALSO RAMPOLLA TO PROVIDE
SERVICE ENTRY.
WE'RE ALSO IMPROVING ALL THE
FIRE SAFETY IN ON THE FIRST
FLOOR AND ALL THE MECHANICAL,
ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL
ELECTRICAL AND PLUMBING
IMPROVEMENTS ARE GOING TO BE
UPGRADED TO CURRENT STANDARDS
AS WELL AS PROVIDING THE RAMP
TO A BARRIER FREE BATHROOMS AND
ALL THE COMPLIANCE INSIDE.
IT'S A LEVEL TWO RENOVATION
UNDER THE TWENTY FIFTEEN
MICHIGAN UNDER THE
REHABILITATION CODE IN THE
PACKET I GAVE YOU THERE'S AN
ENTIRE PAGE ON TECHNICAL AND
FEASIBILITY AND IF YOU READ THE
REHABILITATION CODE IT
DEMONSTRATES IN THERE THAT IF
YOU HAVE A HISTORIC STRUCTURE
AND IT'S A LEVEL ONE OR LEVEL
TWO RENOVATION THAT IF IT'S
TECHNICALLY INFEASIBLE TO
COMPLY WITH A BARRIER FREE
CODE YOU'RE EXEMPT AGAIN THIS
IS JUST REFERENCE MATERIAL.
WE'RE NOT ASKING FOR EXEMPTION.
WE CAN COMPLY IF WE CAN GET THE
VARIANCE ON THE TEN TWENTY
SEVEN POINT FIVE ISSUE.
SO IT IS CLEAR THAT THIS LITTLE
FORTY FOUR BY 60 FOOT PIECE
OF PROPERTY OR THE BUILDING AT
THE GREATEST DISTANCE THE
BUILDING TO THE PROPERTY LINE
IS NINE FEET IN ORDER TO COMPLY
WITH TEN TWENTY SEVEN POINT
FIVE WE NEED FOURTEEN FEET
WHICH DOES NOT EXIST ON OUR
SITE TO PUT ON AN EXTERIOR EXIT
WAY IN AND THEN HAVE THE TEN
FEET OF SET BACK THAT TEN
TWENTY SEVEN POINT FIVE IS
REQUIRING AND THEN TO THE
PROPERTY LINE IT JUST
PHYSICALLY DOESN'T EXIST.
SO WE HAVE A PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTY AND HARDSHIP.
IT'S TECHNICALLY FEASIBLE TO
PROVIDE THAT TEN FEET NOW TO
THE INTENT.
I HAVE READ MORE AND MORE ABOUT
THIS.
I'M SEARCHING ONLINE AND
WHATNOT AND IT APPEARS TO ME
THAT THE INTENT OF TEN TWENTY
SEVEN POINT FIVE IS THAT IN AN
EMERGENCY BE TO FIRE SOMEONE'S
INJURED
OR HURT THAT FIRE
EMERGENCY SERVICES AND OR LAW
ENFORCEMENT HAS VISUAL ACCESS
TO THAT EXIT WAY AND THEY
PHYSICALLY CAN MOVE FROM THIS
TEN FOOT SETBACK AREA ONTO THAT
RAMP WHERE SIDLE UP AND SAVE
SOMEONE'S LIFE.
WE NEED TO PROTECT THAT
PERSON'S LIFE.
WE NEED TO SEE THEY'RE IN
DANGER AND WE NEED TO GO AND
RESCUE THEM.
VERY IMPORTANT AND SO UNIQUE
CHARACTERISTIC ABOUT THE SITE
IS THAT THREE ELEVEN THREE
FIFTEEN ARE PART OF THIS
HISTORIC DISTRICT.
THERE IS A DRIVEWAY ON THREE
FIFTEEN A TEN FOOT WIDE
DRIVEWAY THAT RUNS FROM THE
STREET TO THE PARKING AREA
SHARED BY THREE ELEVEN AND
THREE FIFTEEN.
THERE IS ANOTHER DRIVEWAY
THAT'S ON THE WEST SIDE
OF THREE FIFTEEN ON THE EAST
SIDE AT THREE FIFTEEN THERE'S
ANOTHER DRIVEWAY THAT IS MOSTLY
ON THE THREE TWENTY ONE
PROPERTY AND IT'S A SHARED
DRIVEWAY BETWEEN THREE FIFTEEN
AND THREE TWENTY ONE ALTHOUGH
THERE'S NO EXECUTED SHARED
AGREEMENT FOR THAT SO THE ONLY
MEANS OF VEHICULAR ENTRY INTO
THE THREE FIFTEEN PARKING AREA
WHOLLY ON THE THREE FIFTEEN
SITE IS THIS TEN FOOT DRIVEWAY
SO WE HAVE A TEN FOOT DRIVEWAY
WE HAVE A HISTORIC DISTRICT
THAT DOESN'T ALLOW ANY MAJOR
TAMPERING OF THE CLEAR SPACE
BETWEEN THE BUILDINGS.
WE HAVE A RAMP WE THAT'S
TOTALLY CONSTRUCTED OUT
OF NONCOMBUSTIBLE STEEL
MATERIALS.
THE EAST BUILDING WALL OF 311.
WE'RE GOING TO BRING UP A
CONFORMANCE OF SECTION SEVENTY
FIVE POINT FIVE WHICH HAVE ALSO
INCLUDED IN THE PACKET IN FRONT
OF YOU WHICH STATES THAT IF YOU
HAVE A SETBACK OF LESS AND TEN
FEET IF YOU UPGRADE THE
BUILDING WALL THAT BRINGS
COMPLIANCE TO IT.
SO IN FRONT OF YOU AND THERE
ARE TWO RAMP BOYS PROPOSED IN
FRONT OF YOU BUT IT'S CLEAR AND
OBVIOUS THAT THE REAR RAMP THAT
I WAS ORIGINALLY TASKED TO WORK
TO DOES NOT COMPLY WITH TEN
TWENTY SEVEN POINT FIVE IN ANY
SUCH WAY INCLUDING THE INTENT
BUT PLACING THE RAMP ON THE
EAST SIDE OF THE BUILDING I
HAVE TEN FEET OF CLEAR SPACE
FORM BY THE DRIVEWAY THAT HAS
TO BE THERE.
WE HAVE THAT UNIQUE CONDITION
AS AN HISTORIC DISTRICT IN THAT
SPACE IS PRESERVED INCREASING
FIRE RATING ON THE SIDEWALK,
NONCOMBUSTIBLE NATURE OF THE
RAMP.
WE I BELIEVE THAT WE'RE SHOWING
THAT IT'S WE'RE SHOWING THE
PRACTICAL DIFFICULTY IN OUR
TRIP AND WE'RE SHOWING THAT
WE'RE TRYING TO PROVIDE ALL THE
PROTECTION THAT TEN TWENTY
SEVEN POINT FIVE REQUIRE JUST
IN ANY UNIQUE MANNER AS MOST
VARIANCES DEMONSTRATE.
I'M HERE FOR ANY QUESTIONS.
THANK YOU.
QUESTIONS ON THE YEAH SO YES
JUST GAVE OUT THIS BEFORE THE
THANK YOU.
MEETING IF THE NINETEEN EIGHTY
JUST GAVE OUT THIS BEFORE THE
SEVEN DETERMINATIONS NULL AND
MEETING IF THE NINETEEN EIGHTY
VOID BUT IN THE BACKGROUND IT'S
SEVEN DETERMINATIONS NULL AND
TALKING ABOUT BARRIER FREE
VOID BUT IN THE BACKGROUND IT'S
DESIGN REQUIREMENTS FOR THE I
TALKING ABOUT BARRIER FREE
GUESS ACCESS TO THE FIRST FLOOR
DESIGN REQUIREMENTS FOR THE I
ADDRESSES THE FIRST ONE BUT
GUESS ACCESS TO THE FIRST FLOOR
THEN THEY ALSO TALKING ABOUT
ADDRESSES THE FIRST ONE BUT
EASIER ACCESS TO THE SECOND OH
THEN THEY ALSO TALKING ABOUT
NOT SO TOUGH I'M GOING TO HIT
EASIER ACCESS TO THE SECOND OH
THE BUTTON AND PUSH THE BUTTON
NOT SO TOUGH I'M GOING TO HIT
DOWN SO THAT BETTER TO TO
THE BUTTON AND PUSH THE BUTTON
RESTATE IS THE IS THE ISSUE
DOWN SO THAT BETTER TO TO
HERE JUST ACCESS TO THE FIRST
RESTATE IS THE IS THE ISSUE
FLOOR BECAUSE THE BACKGROUND
HERE JUST ACCESS TO THE FIRST
DESCRIPTION TALKS ABOUT ACCESS
FLOOR BECAUSE THE BACKGROUND
TO THE SECOND FLOOR WITH A LIFT
DESCRIPTION TALKS ABOUT ACCESS
SO ARE WE JUST TALKING ABOUT
TO THE SECOND FLOOR WITH A LIFT
THE FIRST FLOOR ACCESS?
SO ARE WE JUST TALKING ABOUT
I AM TASKED WITH REHABILITATING
THE FIRST FLOOR ACCESS?
THE FIRST FLOOR OF THE BUILDING
I AM TASKED WITH REHABILITATING
AND I'M TRYING TO BRING THAT
THE FIRST FLOOR OF THE BUILDING
AREA OF THE BUILDING UP TO
AND I'M TRYING TO BRING THAT
COMPLIANCE IN IT.
AREA OF THE BUILDING UP TO
YES, IN THE EXEMPTION FOR
COMPLIANCE IN IT.
EXAMPLE, DO YOU NEED TO TELL
YES, IN THE EXEMPTION FOR
YOUR SO I KEN JACOBS AND THE
EXAMPLE, DO YOU NEED TO TELL
PROPERTY OWNERS SON IN LAW IN
YOUR SO I KEN JACOBS AND THE
THAT EXEMPTION FROM AZ WHICH IS
PROPERTY OWNERS SON IN LAW IN
EXEMPT IT TALKS ABOUT THE LIFT
THAT EXEMPTION FROM AZ WHICH IS
ACCESS TO THE FIRST FLOOR AND
EXEMPT IT TALKS ABOUT THE LIFT
THERE WAS EXEMPTION FOR ACCESS
ACCESS TO THE FIRST FLOOR AND
TO THE SECOND FLOOR AND AN
THERE WAS EXEMPTION FOR ACCESS
EXEMPTION TO A RECESSED FLOOR
TO THE SECOND FLOOR AND AN
FOR A DISPLAY CASE ON THE FIRST
EXEMPTION TO A RECESSED FLOOR
FLOOR.
FOR A DISPLAY CASE ON THE FIRST
THAT'S WHAT WAS IN THE
FLOOR.
EXEMPTION WHICH VOID BECAUSE
THAT'S WHAT WAS IN THE
THE WELL, IT'S TIME YEAH.
EXEMPTION WHICH VOID BECAUSE
BECAUSE OF CHANGES IN THE
THE WELL, IT'S TIME YEAH.
CODE .
BECAUSE OF CHANGES IN THE
IS THAT WHAT YOU SAID WAS
CODE .
CHANGING USED TO THE CHANGE IN
IS THAT WHAT YOU SAID WAS
USE FOR MERCANTI TO BUSINESS I
CHANGING USED TO THE CHANGE IN
AND BOARDS THAT YES.
USE FOR MERCANTI TO BUSINESS I
AND ACCESS TO THE SECOND FLOOR
AND BOARDS THAT YES.
IS OWNED BY THE STAIRWAY ON THE
AND ACCESS TO THE SECOND FLOOR
WEST SIDE OF THE BUILDING.
IS OWNED BY THE STAIRWAY ON THE
THERE'S A THERE'S AN INTERIOR
WEST SIDE OF THE BUILDING.
EXTOLLS.
THERE'S A THERE'S AN INTERIOR
THERE'S ALSO INTERIOR OBVIOUSLY
EXTOLLS.
USE OF THE SECOND FLOOR.
THERE'S ALSO INTERIOR OBVIOUSLY
IS THAT GOING TO BE IT?
USE OF THE SECOND FLOOR.
IT'S VACANT RIGHT NOW.
IS THAT GOING TO BE IT?
SO IT HAS BEEN A HAIR SALON AND
IT'S VACANT RIGHT NOW.
WE'RE IN THE PROCESS ACTUALLY
SO IT HAS BEEN A HAIR SALON AND
OF TRYING TO PLAN OUT WHAT ARE
WE'RE IN THE PROCESS ACTUALLY
GOING TO BE DEALING WITH THE
OF TRYING TO PLAN OUT WHAT ARE
WHOLE BUILDING THE BUILDING WE
GOING TO BE DEALING WITH THE
HAVE NEXT DOOR IS A MIX
WHOLE BUILDING THE BUILDING WE
OF COMMERCIAL ON THE FIRST
HAVE NEXT DOOR IS A MIX
FLOOR AND AN APARTMENT THAT WAS
OF COMMERCIAL ON THE FIRST
THE SECOND AND THIRD FLOOR.
FLOOR AND AN APARTMENT THAT WAS
WE'RE EVALUATING WHAT WE'RE
THE SECOND AND THIRD FLOOR.
GOING TO DO.
WE'RE EVALUATING WHAT WE'RE
THE TENANT ACTUALLY BROKE HER
GOING TO DO.
LEASE AND LEFT US WITH A PRETTY
THE TENANT ACTUALLY BROKE HER
HIGH UNCOLLECTABLE RECEIVABLE
LEASE AND LEFT US WITH A PRETTY
IN THE BASEMENT MY FATHER IN
HIGH UNCOLLECTABLE RECEIVABLE
LAW'S SHOP AND SO THE INTENT IS
IN THE BASEMENT MY FATHER IN
HE'S GOING TO GO BACK IN THERE
LAW'S SHOP AND SO THE INTENT IS
AND WE'RE DOING A CLEARANCE
HE'S GOING TO GO BACK IN THERE
SALE AND THEN BEING SEVENTY
AND WE'RE DOING A CLEARANCE
EIGHT NO.
SALE AND THEN BEING SEVENTY
EIGHTY SEVEN.
EIGHT NO.
YES, I WAS REVERSALS TOO BUT
EIGHTY SEVEN.
BEING EIGHTY SEVEN HE'S
YES, I WAS REVERSALS TOO BUT
INTENDING TO RETIRE THIS COMING
BEING EIGHTY SEVEN HE'S
YEAR AND THEN THAT WILL GO TO
INTENDING TO RETIRE THIS COMING
ANOTHER MERCANTILE STINTON
A
QUESTION ABOUT THE DRIVEWAY ON
THE EAST SIDE.
IS THAT AN ALLEYWAY OR IS IT ON
THE ADJACENT PROPERTY THAT YOU
OWN?
THE DRIVEWAY IS ON THREE
FIFTEEN AND IT RUNS RIGHT ALONG
THE EAST PROPERTY LINE OF 311
NUMERATI USE IT.
THERE'S A RIGHT TO USE THAT
DRIVEWAY ACTUALLY ACROSS THAT
DRIVEWAY WITH PEOPLE GETTING
OUT OF THE BUILDING BOTH OK,
YOU COULD GIVE YOURSELF RIGHT
AWAY YOU DON'T WANT TO BE
BLOCKED, CORRECT?
BUT IF IT'S SOLD IN THE FUTURE
AND THERE'S SOME KIND OF REASON
RIGHT AWAY THAT IF IT IS SET UP
BEFORE WE DO, I'LL ACCESS
THERE.
BUT I MEAN I THINK THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT THE PREFERENCE WAS IN
THE BACK.
I HAVE TO TELL YOU JUST FROM
WHAT I'VE SEEN OF THE BUILDING
THAT I KIND OF FEEL THE SAME
WAY BECAUSE THE EAST RAMP IS
GOING TO BE EXPOSED TO TRAFFIC
CORRECT IN AN OUT SO SOMEBODY
COULD PRESUMABLY HIT THAT RAMP
.
THE OTHER THING IS THE RAMP
BLOCKS OFF ACCESS TO THE GAS
METERS THAT ARE ON THE SIDE
OF THE BUILDING.
SO I DON'T KNOW HOW YOU GET IN
THERE AND DO ANY OF THAT
SERVICING.
I'M READING THAT CLIMB ON THE
OTHER SIDE.
YEAH, SO WE'RE PROVIDING
BOLLARDS ALONGSIDE THE RAMP SO
VEHICLES CAN'T CRASH INTO IT
AND THE THE METER SPACE IN MY
CONVERSATION WITH DETROIT
EDISON THEY SAID AS LONG AS
THERE'S A CLEAR WAY AT THE END
OF THE RAMP ALONG TO THE SIDE
OF THE BUILDING WHICH WE'RE
PROVIDING THEY CAN ACCESS THOSE
METERS TO READ THEM.
THEY ALSO HAVE REMOTE READERS
AND THEY CAN STAND A CERTAIN
DISTANCE AWAY AND READ THEM
ALSO WHAT ABOUT SERVICING?
ABOUT SERVICING OF THE METERS?
I'M PRETTY SURE THERE'S A
CODE ABOUT THREE FOOT ACCESS,
EVEN A FIRE DEPARTMENT HAS TO
GET ACCESS TO THEM TO SHUT OFF.
YEAH, THERE IS A FIRE CODE .
THERE'S THIRTY SIX INCH
CLEARANCE.
OK SO WE WOULD NEED TO RELOCATE
THE METERS IN ORDER TO COMPLY.
YEAH AND THAT'S A BAD OPTIONS
PREFER THE NICE THING ABOUT THE
BACK JUST FOR YOU TO TAKE THEM
TO CONSIDERATION IS WE HAVE A
PROBLEM IN THE BACK RIGHT NOW
WITH ALL THOSE PEOPLE THAT ARE
SETTING UP TENTS AND STUFF.
THE INTENT IS TO ACTUALLY
UPGRADE THAT SPACE SO THAT
WOULD PROVIDE A DECK THE RAMP
WOULD CONNECT TO A DECK SO
WOULD ALSO BE THE SEATING AREA
FOR THE FOR THE STORM TENT.
YEAH, AND THAT ALSO WOULD BE
HELPFUL BECAUSE IT WOULD RIGHT
NOW IT'S JUST A VACANT ALLEYWAY
AND A LITTLE HIDDEN SPOT AND BY
UPGRADING THAT WE CAN KIND
OF MAINTAIN THE PROPERTY WE
RECENTLY HAD TO REPORT TO THE
POLICE BECAUSE THEY'RE PEEING
ON THE FRONT DOOR EVERY NIGHT
AND THEY'RE SETTING UP TENTS IN
THE BACK
WHICH IS THE THREE OR
ONE EACH DELIVERY.
WHAT DOES THAT WALL OF FIRE ALL
THE OPENINGS IN IT?
YES, A THREE ON ONE IS ON THE
WEST SIDE OF 311 AND THE NORTH
SIDE AND IT'S A SEVEN OR NINE
STOREYS I CAN'T REMEMBER IT'S A
BRICK WHITE AND CONCRETE BLOCK
WALL AND THE REAL ONE IS IS
TOTALLY SUPPRESSED AND THAT'S
AS NO FENESTRATION IN THE NAZIS
A ZERO LOT LINE NO WINDOWS
ELEVATION.
IT DOESN'T SEEM LIKE THE INTENT
OF THE PART OF THE CODE IS THAT
,YOU KNOW, YOU HAVE TWO
BUILDINGS IN THE SAME LOCK THAT
HAVE NO ROOM FOR FIRE
PROTECTION.
YOU KNOW, SO THE RELEASE THE
THE THREE OR ONE IN AND IS FIRE
PROTECTED FROM THE RAMP IN YOUR
BUILDING BECAUSE IT'S A FIRE NO
OPENINGS YOU KNOW TO GENERATE A
WALL SO JUST CURIOUS WHAT THAT
ASSEMBLY THERE WAS THERE WAS AN
OPENING IT'S IT'S A FOUR HOUR
RATED WALL ON THE THREE 112000
IN THE QUESTIONS FROM THE TWO
WILL YOU HAVE TO GO BACK TO THE
STATE FOR A DIFFERENT EXEMPTION
TO RAISE THE SECOND FLOOR
DEPENDING ON THE USE THEN WE
HAVE TO GO BACK TO THE STATE
FOR SOME OTHER TYPE OF I MEAN
DEPENDING ON WHAT WE DECIDE TO
DO WITH THAT WE END UP HAVING
TO DO THAT WHERE THE INTENT IS
TO ACTUALLY BREAK EVERYTHING
OFF THE CURRENT BUILDING CODES
AND STUFF.
I MEAN WE'RE SO THERE WAS THERE
WAS WATER DAMAGE LAST WINTER
AND BECAUSE OF THAT WE STARTED
TO OPEN SOME OF THE WALLS TO
AND THE MORE WE DO THE MORE
THINGS WE FIND.
SO WE FOUND OUT LIKE BECAUSE IT
WAS BUILT IN THE EARLY NINETEEN
HUNDREDS THERE ARE NOW CROSS
TIES IN THE ATTIC.
SO WE'RE LOOKING AT LIKE
REINFORCING THE STRUCTURE, THE
BUILDING AS PART OF FIXING
THINGS UP BECAUSE RIGHT NOW THE
ROOF IS LITERALLY PUSHING DOWN.
SO WE WE NEED TO REINFORCE
EVERYTHING MOVING FORWARD AND
WE HAVE TO LOOK COST BENEFITS
OF EVERYTHING TO FIGURE OUT
WHAT WE'RE GOING TO DO AS FAR
AS USE AND STUFF AND ACCESS TO
THE FIRST FLOOR IF WE'RE
HANDICAPPED WOULD BE USING THAT
RAMP EITHER EXIT OR ENTRANCE.
YEAH, AND THERE'S NO REAL WAY
TO GET TO THE SECOND LOAD AT
THIS POINT BECAUSE THERE'S NO
ELEVATOR AND NO THERE'S NO
ELEVATOR WAS BUILT IN NINETEEN
HUNDRED BUT THERE ARE TWO
STAIRS THAT YOU'RE STARING
INTO.
YOU'RE STUCK ON THE SECOND.
YEAH BUT THERE'S A WELL THERE'S
THREE STAIRS YEAH THERE ARE TWO
STAIRS ACCESSIBLE FROM THE
FIRST FLOOR SO THIS IS GOING TO
BE THE MEANS OF EGRESS INGRESS
AND EGRESS FOR THIS BARRIER
FREE.
WE'RE ALSO LIGHTING ON THAT
SPACE.
IS THERE MORE LIGHTING PROPOSED
FOR THAT ON THE RIGHT AND WE'RE
ALSO PLACING LIGHTING ALL ALONG
THAT PROVIDE THE ONE FOOT
CANDLE ON THEM.
THAT MEANS EGRESS OUT TO THE
STREET ALL OVER THE STREET.
YES.
IS ANYTHING THE FIRE DEPARTMENT
WILL NEED TO HAVE OUTSIDE YOU
BECAUSE I KNOW SOMETIMES YOU
GUYS HAVE STROBES, YOU KNOW HOW
DO YOU KNOW TO GO IN THE BACK
OR IF THEY DO HAVE ACCESS BACK
THERE?
THERE IS NOTHING THAT I KNOW
OF CODE THAT WOULD REQUIRE FOR
ANY TYPE HORDES OF STROBES
THAT'S ACTUALLY I USUALLY IF
THAT'S ON THE OUTSIDE TO
SIGNIFY IF THERE'S AN ALARM
SYSTEM FOR THE FIRE GOING OFF
OR FOR FDC CONNECTION.
BUT OTHER THAN THAT FOR FOR US
IN RESPONSE IF WE'RE LOOKING
FOR THE BUILDING THERE THERE'S
ALWAYS A THREE SIXTY NINE.
SO MOST BUILDINGS NOT EVERYBODY
IS GOING TO HAVE TWO FORMS
OF EGRESS OR INGRESS BUT IT'S
JUST YOU GO TO THE NEXT BOX AND
IF THEY HAVE AN XBOX AND THEN
IT'S GOING AROUND THE BUILDING
AND I MEAN IF THEY HAVE TO IF
THERE'S A LOCKED DOOR THEY
FORCE FOR SECURITY.
SO WITHOUT A BARRIER
PREDESIGNED ARE GOING TO BE DO
THEY NEED TO HAVE SIGNAGE
OUTSIDE BARRIER FREE ENTRANCES
AND TYPICALLY THEY WOULDN'T
HAVE TIME.
THERE'S NOT THAT IT'S NOT THE
MAIN ENTRANCE WITH SIGNAGE
DIRECTING AROUND DIRECTIONS
YOU
TALK A LITTLE MORE ABOUT THE
TWO OPTIONS ON THE RAMP ON THE
ON THE BACK SIDE ONE IS LIKE A
PREFABRICATED ALUMINUM RAMP AND
ONE IS A TRAIN THAT THE BOTH
THE REAR RAMP IS A PREFAB
SHADED ALUMINUM FRAME AND THE
EAST RAMP IS USED TO BUILD
BESPOKE NO IT'S ALL STEEL
CONSTRUCTION, NO WOOD ON IT AT
ALL.
IT'S I WANT TO MAKE SURE WAS
NONCOMBUSTIBLE IN BOTH CASES.
NO I MEAN THAT THE BACK RAMP
COMES OFF A DECK THAT IS BUILT
OUT OF WOOD SO THERE'S A PIECE
OF COMBUSTIBLE LIKE THE DECK IS
COMPOSED BUT UP THE ROAD ITSELF
IN THE BACK RAMP ONCE YOU
EXITED THAT LEAVES YOU WITH THE
DRIVEWAY YOU'RE EXITING THE END
OF THE DRIVE.
THE DRIVEWAY RIGHT NOW IS
GRAVEL.
I THINK CORRECT IS AN
ACCESSIBLE ROAD.
YOU DON'T KNOW THAT COMES IN.
SO IT'S BUT THERE'S SORRY THAT
THE DRIVEWAY GETS GRAVEL BUT
THERE'S A SIDEWALK THAT'S ALONG
THE SIDE.
PART OF THAT IS PART OF IT WAS
THE CONCRETE OR WHATEVER.
YEAH.
AND SO YOUR SIDE RAMP ISN'T
GOING TO INTERFERE WITH THE
SIDEWALK TO SIDEWALK WILL STILL
BE AVAILABLE.
THE EAST RIVER
THE REFERENDUM
COMES OUT TO THE SIDEWALK AND
THEN YOU TAKE THE SIDEWALK TO
THE STREET OR
YOU KNOW, THERE
WAS NO WINDOWS IN THE BACK
OF THE HOUSE YOU WERE FILLING
UP TO THE BATHROOM.
SO THERE'S THE RAMP IS
BASICALLY SEPARATED BY FIRE AT
ASSEMBLY FOR BOTH SIDES,
CORRECT?
WHAT'S YOUR DEXATRIM ON?
IS THIS TEXAS OR IS WOOD STREET
?
NO, NO.
WE'RE STILL HAVE TO GO TO THE
HISTORICAL COMMISSION FOR THE
REVIEW TO SEE HOW TO PROVE IT.
THEN GO BACK TO THEM FOR THEIR
APPROVAL OR WHATEVER YOU'RE
PROPOSING HERE.
WE'VE RECEIVED APPROVAL ON BOTH
GRABOIS OK,
IN THE COMMONS AND
MAKE A MOTION I'M HAVING A HARD
TIME WITH THE WOOD DECK BURNING
IN CASE OF A FIRE.
I MEAN YOU CAN FRAME IT OUT
OF LANGUAGE METAL AND WITH THE
DECKING MATERIAL WOULD BE BUT
YOU COULD USE METAL FRAMING FOR
THE STRUCTURAL AND THE DEPOSITS
AND I STILL PREFER TO PASS IT
THOUGH YOU'D BE PRIVATIZED AND
TREATED LUMBER WE HAVE GOING
WITH THAT A BRAND BRAMBLETT YOU
JUST CARRY THAT YOU COULD IS
NORMAL BUILDING MATERIAL
STRAIGHT TO IT POTENTIALLY I'M
HEARING WE WANT TO
NONCOMBUSTIBLE DECK AND I KNOW
WHAT I'M THINKING.
YEAH YEAH YEAH
.
THERE WAS A SECTION IN THAT IN
THE SECTION ONE OR TWO POINT
ONE ONE ZERO TWO SEVEN POINT
FIVE IN THE LAST ONE ABOUT A
SIMILAR BEING ON THE BUILDINGS
IN THE SAME LIGHT THAT THE
WALLS AND BUILDINGS ARE
PROTECTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
SEGMENT SEVEN OF FIRE
FIREFIGHTER SEPARATION DISTANCE
.
SO I THINK WHAT THEY'RE
PROVIDING THERE IS NO OPENINGS
ON EITHER SIDE OF THE RAMP
WOULD BE POTENTIALLY EQUIVALENT
TO THAT.
YEAH YEAH THAT'S ONE HOUR OR
WHATEVER WHATEVER TIME FOR
OPENING THERE.
SO AS FAR AS ANY EQUIVALENCY
EMOTION IN THE QUESTIONS I HAVE
NO MORE QUESTIONS.
I'LL MAKE THE MOTION BUT IT'S
GOING TO BE WITH FAVORING THE
BACK I I AGREE.
YEAH OK OK I MOVED IT IN THE
CASE OF BVA TWENTY THREE DEATHS
ZERO ZERO ZERO FIVE THE PEEL
OF THE BUILDING OFFICIALS
DECISION THAT THE WORK PROPOSED
TO 311 EAST LIBERTY GRANTED
RELIEF FROM SECTION TEN TWENTY
SEVEN POINT FIVE OF THE TWENTY
FIFTEEN MICHIGAN BUILDING
CODE AND THE BUILDING BOARD
OF APPEAL REVERSES THE BUILDING
OFFICIALS DECISION FOR THE
REASON THAT THE APPLICANT HAS
PROPOSED AN EQUAL OR BETTER
FORM OF CONSTRUCT SECTION
STIPULATIONS ARE THAT THE
ACCESSIBLE RAMP AND MEANS
OF EGRESS FOR THE FIRST FLOOR
BE LOCATED ON THE REAR OR NORTH
OF THE THREE ELEVEN BUILDING
WITH THE PROVISION THAT THIS
CONDITION IS ACCEPTABLE AS LONG
AS THE ADJOINING ADJACENT THREE
OR ONE EXISTING BUILDING WITH
FOUR OUR EXTERIOR WALL RATING
REMAIN AND THAT THE EXISTING
311 LIBERTY BUILDING ADJOINING
WALL TO THE RAMP RETAIN ITS ONE
HOUR RATING AND THAT THE DECK
BE CONSTRUCTED
OF NONCOMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL.
THE APPROVAL OF THIS APPEAL
SHALL NOT BE CONSIDERED AS A
PRECEDENT FOR FUTURE PROJECTS
INCURRING SIMILAR CONDITIONS IF
ANY COMMENTS ON THE MOTION I
THINK AND SUGGEST A VOLUNTARY
AMENDMENT TO HAVE SOME TYPE
OF RIGHT AWAY AGREEMENT FROM
THE END OF THAT RAMP UP TO THE
STREET BECAUSE OF AS A MEANS
OF EGRESS THAT WE DON'T WANT TO
MAKE SURE THAT RAMP CONTINUES
TO THE RIGHT AWAY
THE OTHER
SIDEWALK IS BECAUSE RIGHT NOW
THE ADJACENT PROPERTY IF THERE
ARE TWO DIFFERENT PROPERTY
DISCHARGING TO AN ADJACENT
PROPERTY, ISN'T THAT SIDEWALK
ALREADY A PART OF THAT BUILDING
COURSE THAT AMENDMENT I THINK
I'M LOOKING AT THAT.
I THINK IT'S PART OF THAT SAME
PROPERTY THE SIDEWALK IS SO I
THINK THAT EASEMENTS ALREADY
ARE ALREADY THERE.
I THINK SO THE THE THE GROUND
IS GOING TO GO INTO THE
SIDEWALK AND THE SIDEWALK.
YEAH, WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THIS
AREA DOWN THE THREE ELEVEN
PROPERTY TO THE STREET.
RIGHT.
IT'S ALREADY THREE ELEVEN
PROPERTY OK AND THEN THE RAMP
STOPS BEFORE THE END.
USUALLY THE RAMP IS GOING RIGHT
OUT TO WHERE THAT WAS.
THAT WAS ON THE EVE WHEN WE
WERE TALKING ABOUT ON THE SIDE
THE EAST SIDE OF THE BUILDING
AT THE REAR IS WHERE WE WERE
HAVING THAT DISCUSSION.
SO YOU HAVE A PATH TO RIGHT
AWAY, CORRECT?
CORRECT.
SO NO FRIENDLY AMENDMENT NEED
IT THEN IT ISN'T SOUND LIKE IT
DOESN'T TELL ME.
I GUESS YOU CAN MAKE A
PROVISION THAT IS THAT IS IN
THERE SO THAT WHATEVER THEY DO
THEY DO HAPPEN RIGHT AWAY.
I GUESS THAT'S REQUIRED THE
BUILDING CODE NO MATTER WHAT
YOU'RE OUT TO THE RIGHT AWAY SO
THAT HAVE TO MAKE THAT PART
MOTION SO SO IN OTHER WORDS
LIKE SOMEONE COULDN'T BUILD AN
ADDITION OUTSIDE THE BUILDING
BECAUSE YOU NEED TO MAINTAIN
ACCESS THAT MAKES SENSE.
ANY OTHER QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS
ON THE MOTION ON THE BOARD,
THOSE IN FAVOR I, I ANYONE
AGAINST THE MOTION PASSES.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
APPRECIATE YOUR CONSIDERATION
TO THE BOARD SECRETARY.
ALL RIGHT.
THIS UP AND YOU'LL GET
SOMETHING IN A MONTH OR SO LEFT
,OK?
WE'LL GIVE IT ONE.
THANK YOU.
KNOW, WE DID ENJOY RETIREMENT
.
THANK
IF I COULD THERE WERE A
COUPLE OF THINGS ON THE AGENDA.
THERE WAS NO PUBLIC COMMENTARY.
THERE WERE NO PEOPLE ON LINE
AND THE APPROVAL OF AGENDA I'M
ASSUMING THAT WILL GO WITH THE
SAME PEOPLE THAT IMPROVE THE
MINUTES IF THAT'S OK WITH THE
BOARD.
YES.
THANK YOU.
SO VERY OLD BUSINESS YOU FROM
THE BOARD OR YOU FROM THE PHONE
BUSINESS YOU KNOW THE
COMMUNICATION FOR THE BOARD.
I HAVE A BUILDING OFFICIAL
QUESTION GLENN.
ANY UPDATES AND WHEN THE NEW
CODE MIGHT BE ADOPTED THE
BEEVOR IS GETTING RESTLESS,
NERVOUS HAVEN'T HEARD WHETHER
ALSO WEREN'T WE SUPPOSED TO GET
AN UPDATE ABOUT THE GENERATOR
ON AND ON OR NOT?
NO, NOT THE WALL STREET OR
WHATEVER WHERE THEY CAN GO OUT
THERE 1100 BOARDWALK.
SO THE PROJECT WAS DELAYED.
THEY'RE BACK TO THE ORIGINAL
PLAN WITH THE PERMANENT
GENERATOR SO THEY WOULDN'T NEED
THE VARIANCE.
SO THEY BASICALLY ARE TO A
POINT WHERE THEY WOULDN'T BE
REQUESTING OCCUPANCY.
WHAT WAS ALREADY APPROVED ON
THE ORIGINAL PLAN GET DOES THAT
MEAN THAT THEY DIDN'T GET THE
GENERATOR YET?
I DON'T KNOW.
THEY HAVE IT IT'S HOOKED UP TO
CERTAIN TESTING NOW THEY'VE HAD
PERMANENT ONE IN PLACE.
THERE'S OTHER CONSTRUCTION
THINGS IN FRONT OF COMPANIES
MARKET TO OTHER OTHER THAN
YEAH.
CORRECT.
YEAH YEAH RIGHT.
ANYTHING ELSE IN MOTION TO MOVE
TO ADJOURN.
I SAID I WAS IN FAVOR I PASSED
WE ADJOURNED IT TO NINE.
THANK YOU